[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Initially, I was diagnosed
with lupus and I would say
about four years ago I was also
diagnosed with fibromyalgia.
>> I was diagnosed with Lyme
disease 16 years ago and my MS
15 years ago.
>> I just have a lot
of head problems,
like headaches and
just like migraines,
and like light headedness.
And then, stomach issues I've
had for like a year that we're
not really sure of the cause.
>> All I'm going to ask you
to do here today is to trust
and believe and surrender.
This is not Western medicine.
This is Eastern medicine
and energy medicine.
But Eastern medicine
says, basically,
and energy medicine says
that as human beings
we've learned how to hold
onto all of our emotions.
And in doing so, we create
density in our body.
Things that Western medicine has
labeled cancer, fibromyalgia,
Crohn's disease, migraine,
headaches, depression, anxiety,
all of that.
>> I'm fascinated with
healers and how our thoughts
and emotions affect our health.
Now, energy healers
and mind body medicine
may not be considered
normal, but what's not normal
to me is that so many
people are sick these days.
I mean, the people
in this room are just
some of my close
family and friends.
>> I went from being
a healthy, happy mom,
the best days of my life to
being completely unable to take
care of my child.
>> I've been living with
chronic pain for a long time,
and just haven't quite yet
figured out how to feel good.
[WAVES ROARING]
>> Doesn't it seem like so
many people are dealing with
illness?
I feel like it's changed in
the six degrees of Kevin Bacon
to the one degree of cancer.
I mean, has our
world and our food
become so toxic that
illness is inevitable?
And then, I feel like
every other ad on TV
is a drug commercial
filling us with fear
that our bodies are failing us.
>> Very glad and
shining feeling.
>> When I was a kid, besides
being terrible at gymnastics,
I remember thinking how magical
it was that when you get a cut
all you did was clean the
wound, forget about it,
and it healed all by itself.
I feel like we've forgotten
how intelligent the body is.
Having been to all kinds
of healers and doctors
over the last 20 years,
I've experienced firsthand
how my thoughts, beliefs, and
emotions affect my health.
I'm convinced we have
more power to heal
than we've been led to believe.
But don't take my word for it.
I'm going to go out
on the road and speak
to some of the leading
scientists, doctors,
and teachers in the field
of mind-body medicine
to share with you what
is truly possible when
it comes to healing.
>> [MUSIC - NAHKO AND
MEDICINE FOR THE PEOPLE,
"BUDDING TREES"] (SINGING)
Hydrate these cells
'cause the body talks,
and meditation helps.
The body talks, and
meditation helps.
>> It's not just that
disease starts in the mind.
It's that everything
starts in the mind.
>> The body has the capacity to
heal that I was never informed
of as a medical
student or resident.
>> The mind, body,
emotions, relationships,
sensory experiences,
sound, touch, sight,
all these senses are windows
to our inner pharmacy.
>> You gotta get to the
root cause of your dis-ease
if you're going to find freedom.
>> So if I change my
perception, my mind,
change my belief about life,
I change the signals that are
going in and adjusting
the function of the cell.
>> Tonic thoughts
produce tonic chemicals.
Toxic thoughts produce
toxic chemicals.
>> How deeply can we influence
our bodies or the bodies
of our loved ones when it comes
to healing or the world beyond
our bodies?
How much influence
do we really have?
>> (SINGING) Well,
you're the guru now.
So visualize healing.
Yeah, you're the guru now.
So visualize leaving.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In order for some
of us to wake up,
we need a wake-up call.
And in 1986, I got the call.
I was in a triathlon in
Palm Springs, California,
and I was in the biking
portion of the race.
And I was coming up
to this intersection.
So as I made the turn, a
four-wheel drive Bronco
going about 55 miles an
hour hit me from behind
and catapulted me
out of my bicycle.
The compressive force compressed
six vertebrae in my spine.
The prognosis was I'd
probably never walk again
and that I needed a radical
surgery called the Harrington
rod surgery.
If this had been
anybody else, I probably
would have recommended
that they had the surgery.
But this was me.
I decided to check
out of the hospital.
And I just had this one
thought, and the thought
was, the power that made
the body heals the body.
And I couldn't stop thinking
about that because I
knew that there's an
intelligence that's
giving us life that
keeps our heart beating
and digesting our food.
So I decided that I was
going to make contact
with this intelligence,
and I was going to give it
a plan, a template, a design.
And when I was happy
with my creation,
I was going to surrender this
creation to a greater mind
because it knows how to
heal way better than I do.
And the second thing
I said was, I'm not
going to let any thought
slip by my awareness
that I don't want to experience.
So I would start off, in my
mind, reconstructing my spine
vertebrae per
vertebrae, and then I'd
start thinking about
living in a wheelchair.
So for six weeks, I went through
this incredible dark night
of the soul because I
couldn't really get my mind
to do what I wanted it to do.
And it would take me about
three hours and closing my eyes
and reconstructing
every single vertebrae
and starting over again every
time I lost my attention.
At the end of six weeks, I
went through the whole entire
process without
losing my attention,
and it was like I hit a
tennis ball in the sweet spot.
Something clicked
in that moment.
I clicked.
I started noticing significant
changes in my body.
My motor functions
started coming back,
and my body began to
change dramatically.
And I was back on
my feet in 10 weeks
and back training
again at 12 weeks.
And I just made a
deal with myself.
And the deal was that if I
was ever able to walk again,
I'd spend the rest
of my life studying
the mind-body connection
and mind over matter,
and pretty much that's what
I've been doing since 1986.
>> The best science of our time
is now showing that every organ
in the human body has the
ability to heal itself,
given the right environment,
even the organs we were told
could not-- so spinal
cord tissue, brain tissue,
heart tissue, pancreatic
tissue, prostate tissue.
All of these organs are actually
designed to repair and heal
themselves under the
right conditions, given
the right environment.
What are those conditions?
That's the question.
Some of them are environmental,
things like water and air, just
the quality of our food.
Some of them may be
chemical, the supplements
that we take and some
of the herbal products
that our ancestors
understood and used
with great success
in healing our bodies
before modern medicine
ever came along.
And I think those
are interesting.
What really fascinates me
is the inner environment.
And this is the environment
that the Buddha talked to us
about so eloquently.
The Buddha said that
every man and woman
is the architect of their own
healing and their own destiny.
>> There is a natural
intelligence that leads those
cells from the
embryo to the baby.
There is a natural intelligence
that leads the acorn
into an oak tree.
There's a natural
intelligence that
keeps the planets
revolving around the sun.
We would not have
been able to evolve
without having a mechanism
which allows us to take a hit.
And that's what disease is.
That's what injury is.
You took a hit.
But the immune system is
the way the body corrects.
>> And that intelligence
that's giving us life,
that's keeping our heart beating
and digesting our food that
runs through the
autonomic nervous system,
it is the greatest
healer in the world.
All we have to do is
get out of the way.
>> I was always super healthy.
My life was really just a
journey of healing and health.
I was studying
acupuncture, yoga.
I was a super good eater, mostly
vegetarian, probably 40% raw.
But I had gone through
a lot of stress.
I moved.
I was in a very bad marriage.
My mom died.
That was probably
the hardest part.
And she died of cancer.
So pretty much the whole
foundation was shaken,
but I have always had
this real positive,
so I just kept doing
yoga and riding my bike,
and I thought
everything was fine.
But I did know that
there was something
wrong with me
physically because I
would get headaches and just
kind of feel a little nauseous.
So I went to a
doctor three times
over the course of a year.
And each time, he gave
me a different test.
He said, oh, you're fine.
So the third time, I told
him, I have a lot of pain,
and there's like a
stabbing pain in this area.
And so it was bottom of my colon
at the junction of the rectum.
So he did a sigmoidoscopy,
and there it was.
And I thought I was stage
two or three at first.
And then, of course,
the first thing they do
is they send you to a PET scan.
And then the PET scan showed
that it was in a few places,
and it was in my liver, also.
So it was stage four,
and that was a shocker.
I had never heard of anyone
living from stage four.
>> Elizabeth's story really
shocked me because she reminds
me a lot of myself.
She was healthy, worked
out, did yoga, seemingly
did everything right.
Yet, one day, she wakes
up with stage four cancer.
It makes me question, are we at
the mercy of some random fate?
Or is there something
else going on that we just
might not be aware of?
>> I've been in practice
for 35 years now,
and I've seen a lot of patients.
I've seen a lot of crazy things.
And I'm more firmly
convinced every week
that goes by that the ultimate
cause of disease is stress.
>> 90% of what takes people to
the doctor is stress-related
illnesses.
They leave with
anti-depressants.
They leave with every
kind of medication.
>> We have three basic stresses.
We have physical stress, like
accidents, injuries, falls,
traumas.
We have chemical
stress, like bacteria
and viruses and
hormones in foods
and heavy metals and hangovers
and blood sugar levels.
And then we have
emotional stress,
and that's family tragedies,
loss, job, finances.
And all of those things
knock our brain and body out
of balance.
>> When you perceive a threat,
in the old days in school,
we referred to that as
activating the adrenal system,
fight or flight.
If you're being chased
by a saber tooth tiger,
how much energy do you want
to make available to run away
from that tiger?
I hope you get the
answer, and the answer
is I want 100% of the energy
to run away from the tiger.
>> Centuries,
thousands of years ago,
that was maybe appropriate
because there was literally
a potentially life-threatening
situation with a wild animal,
let's say.
But now it's your spouse or it's
your boss or it's rent that's
due in a week.
And yet the system
reacts in the same way
as though it's a
life-threatening situation,
so you're still
releasing cortisol.
You're still
releasing adrenaline,
noradrenaline into the system.
>> And if you're running a
flight or fight response all
the time, by definition, you
are mobilizing resources from
your gut, from your
elimination system,
from your immune system, from
your higher brain centers,
and putting that energy
into your muscles to fight
for your life.
That means your memory
is not all that good.
Your concentration is down.
You can't digest
your food properly.
You can't eliminate
toxins properly.
And your immune system is
compromised, chronically,
all the time.
>> Stress hormones
inhibit the immune system.
How effective?
When doctors want to transplant
an organ from person A
to person, B, they
want to transplant
a heart or a kidney
or a lung, the doctor
gives the patient the
stress hormones and then
transplants the organ.
Why?
Once the organ is put
in, the foreign organ
and the immune system is now
shut down by stress hormones,
then I'm not rejecting
the foreign organ.
Unfortunately in today's world,
the stresses are 24/7, 365.
They never let up.
>> Good evening.
Just ahead of the spring
and summer travel season,
we got a sobering
update on Zika today.
>> Thank you, New York City!
>> The net result is
illness and disease.
That is the only
consequence that
will come from the
chemistry of fear.
And yet, look at
the world today.
>> ISIS's so-called
caliphate is under attack.
>> The Dow plunged
another 260 points.
New losses for Americans
and the 401(k)'s.
>> In the beginning, I just
thought maybe it was some kind
of, like, reaction or a hive
or some dermatological thing.
Then it started to progress
and get worse and worse.
And I started to get massive
breakouts and boils and hives.
And then it started
to spread a little bit
to my ears and my head.
And so then I started to
freak out more and thought,
OK, it's probably
something more serious
than I'm just guessing it
to be by putting on some,
like, topical creams and stuff.
And I think what really sparked
it was maybe about a year
and a half ago, it was
the middle of the night,
and I woke up, but
I couldn't move.
My right side of my
body was paralyzed.
So I freaked out for a moment.
I thought I was having a stroke
or something was happening.
And eventually I could start to
feel some tingling coming back,
and then I rolled out of bed.
From that moment, I
think, about a year
and a half ago, is
when I really started
to-- went to the rheumatologist,
went to a neurologist,
allergist.
They keep saying,
oh, it's autoimmune.
You know, the biopsies now show
connective tissue disorder,
so we know it's
something autoimmune.
You know, they're giving
me all this literature
and all these different drugs.
But, I mean, they
sound so scary.
I don't want to take them.
It's, like, causes blindness
and then heart disease
and just tons and
tons of side effects.
>> And it's so refreshing that
no one knows how to help you,
right?
>> Yeah, and, you know,
sometimes I'm thankful
it's nothing worse.
But at the same
time, for me, you
know, just daily life,
it's, like, I have to work.
I have the kids, you know?
I've got other responsibilities.
And just-- then I have to go
to the doctor, like, five times
a week, and it starts
to get really daunting.
It's really tiring.
I'm just so tired.
>> Jesus, take care of Mommy.
I hope her dots goes away.
And now I put the
holy water on her.
Amen.
>> My little one, she
goes to a private school,
and she always prays.
She goes, "Mommy, I prayed for
your dots today to go away."
And so I was telling her, oh,
somebody from Mommy's work--
remember Kelly?
I go, well, she's
going to help Mommy.
She goes, see, God's
>> Oh!
>> It was so cute.
I started crying.
>> Oh my God.
>> Yeah, I was
like, oh yeah, see,
it's just things are meant
to be sometimes, right?
Things will come-- yeah, come
into your life for some reason.
Like, who would have thought?
>> Yeah.
It's so crazy how
the universe works.
Eva brought me some contracts
to sign at the office
and apologized for a rash
that was on her hand.
Only then did I find
out that for three years
she's been struggling
with this mystery illness.
So I'm going to connect her
with some holistic practitioners
that I've worked with,
see if they can come up
with an answer for
her and help her,
and we'll just see what works,
what doesn't, and hopefully
find out why.
>> You know, we are now about
three centuries in to a mindset
in medicine that was predicated
on the work of Descartes
and even Newton
and Darwin, even,
this idea that our
symptoms are meaningless,
that our body is a machine,
it's full of organs with buttons
and levers that need adjusting,
and that you're really not here
for any purposeful existence.
You're here to live and
survive until you die.
>> Medicine being derived
from Newtonian physics looked
at the body as a physical device
and that if there's anything
wrong with it it is a
consequence of a problem
in the mechanics of
a physical machine.
And I say, well, this is
really cool until 1925.
In 1925, a new physics
came in, quantum physics.
What's the relevance
in quantum physics?
Well, it said that
invisible energy around that
was out there that we
did not count and even
talk about in medicine because
it's just a physical body,
it turns out our
perception of what
is physical is an illusion.
There's nothing physical at all.
It's all energy.
>> If you look inside any
part of your body with
a microscope-- so
let's say, your hand--
and you look inside your
hand, you find cells.
You look inside the
cells, you get your DNA
in the center of the cell.
You look inside the
DNA, you find atoms.
You look inside the atoms,
there's nothing there.
Well, there's protons,
neutrons, electrons.
And what's amazing
is inside an atom
there's 99.9999999999999%
empty space.
If a proton was an apple,
the size of an apple,
the closest electron would be
the size of a grain of salt,
and it would be approximately
2 kilometers away.
Now, that's how much space you
would get, simple pi r squared.
The particles
themselves, they actually
emerge essentially out of
what's called the quantum field.
And ultimately, you can think
of particles as just waves
of energy, just literally
vibrations of energy.
And I think it shifts your mind
from thinking that something
is seemingly solid and permanent
to perhaps something can change
and something can be healed.
>> Long, long time ago,
the word "spirit" was what?
Invisible moving forces that
influence the physical realm.
Quantum physics
is taking us back
to a time that said the
invisible forces that we have
been discounting in
medicine turned out
to be the primary forces
that control everything.
And I said, well,
what do they include?
Mind, consciousness.
And this is why, if
you want to come back
to the supreme power
over our biology,
it's thought the invisible
energy from our mind that
not only shapes our body
but shapes our relationship
to the world in which we live.
>> February the 2nd, 2006,
should have been the last day
of my life.
I had lymphoma, which had
started four years prior
with just a lump on my neck.
I had tumors, some of
them the size of lemons,
from the base of my skull, all
around my neck, under my arms,
into my chest, and all the
way down to my abdomen.
I was so weak that my organs
started shutting down one
by one, and I went into a coma,
and the doctors told my family
that these were my final hours.
I then went into a realm
where I became aware
of my deceased father.
When I was growing
up, my father and I
had a very turbulent
relationship.
I was always left with this
feeling that I had let him down
and that I had never
been the kind of daughter
he wanted me to be.
And here I was now with
him in the other realm,
and all I felt from
him and for him
was pure unconditional love.
There was no judgment from
him at all for anything
that I had done.
It was like I reached a state
of complete and total clarity.
And in that state of
clarity, I understood
why I had the cancer.
I understood how it was that
every decision and every choice
I had made in my life up to
that point was made from fear.
Now that I knew this
truth, I realized
that if I chose to go back
to my body that I would heal.
And it was in those
moments that I felt myself
coming out of the coma.
By about a week, the
doctors could actually
see that the tumors
were dissolving
faster than they'd ever
seen tumors dissolve before.
At the end of five weeks,
I was physically stronger,
and they really could find no
trace of cancer in my body,
so they let me go home and
live my life cancer free.
>> Anita's story is the most
powerful example of just what
is possible with the human body.
She is proof that no matter
how far gone the body seems,
it is possible for tissues
to regenerate and function
to restore.
She had a dramatic
shift in the way
she looked at life from
one of fear to one of love.
That's it.
And her body
responded and healed.
But is she just some
random miracle or can
we study what happened
so that more people can
make this shift?
>> So I've been studying radical
remissions for over 10 years
now, and it started with a trip
around the world to interview
radical remission survivors
from all different countries.
And then, since
then, I've gone on
to analyze over
1,500 of these cases,
and I've conducted over
250 in-depth interviews.
And these are people
from all walks of life.
So there have been
radical remissions
verified and reported for
every single cancer type--
people with pancreatic cancer,
with stage four lung cancer,
with a big brain tumor
that's considered inoperable.
There are examples of people out
there who have healed from it.
I've discovered over
75 different things
that these people have
done to try to get well,
but not everybody uses
all 75 of these factors.
However, when I
looked at the data,
they were all using these nine.
Only two of them are physical.
The rest are mental,
emotional, and spiritual.
And that hit me like
a ton of bricks.
There really is a way to
activate the immune system
with your mental-emotional work.
And of course, there's plenty
of science behind that.
Does that mean that we're
all going to heal tomorrow?
No, but it means they
deserve to be studied,
and there's something incredible
there for us to learn.
>> I very much believed that
perfect health was only one
prescription away.
And it wasn't until
about nine months
postpartum my pregnancy that
I got my first diagnosis.
And I was diagnosed with
Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
I had symptoms of brain fog,
forgetfulness, intense fatigue,
and very much was not myself.
But of course, I was a new mom,
so it's easy to sort of dismiss
those symptoms.
And I had that
same feeling again,
like, I don't want
to take a medication
for the rest of my life.
There's got to be
a way out, right?
another option.
And so I went to a naturopath,
which was very unlike me.
I'd only ever been trained to
dismiss alternative medicine
as sort of this
nuisance, like a nuisance
to legitimate real
medicine, right?
And I went there because I knew
that conventional medicine had
nothing to offer me,
and I knew that there
was no way I would ever get
out of having a chronic illness
if I proceeded with my
conventional doctor.
So of course, I
put into remission
in six months what should be
a chronic lifelong disease.
And I experienced the raising
of a lot of red flags,
essentially, where
I said, you know,
I never learned that nutrition
has anything to do with health.
>> Now, open your little mouth.
>> We have a sick care system
where doctors and insurance
companies are basically treating
symptoms but aren't really
getting to root causes, in
many cases aren't dealing with
the whole person.
They're dealing with a
symptom, by which they then
give a drug, which
then has a side effect.
And so it keeps on spinning--
more toxicity, more toxicity,
more disease, more ill health.
>> Conventional medicine, tied
up in an old belief system,
is locked into the
cause of illness is tied
into our genetics
and our biochemistry.
And therefore, the
pharmaceutical industry
is the great savior.
Why?
Because it will
make the chemistry
that should bring us
back to health again.
Well, it turns out
that's totally false.
There are so few diseases
that are actually organic.
In fact, 100% of
diabetes type 2 has
nothing to do with
genetics and everything
to do with lifestyle.
90% or more of
cardiovascular disease
has nothing organically
wrong with the individual.
It's just the consequence
of dealing with stress.
>> Oh dear, what am I gonna do?
Hello?
Professor--
>> Does this mean
medicine is all negative?
And I go, absolutely not.
Medicine does
miracles with trauma.
If I physically hurt myself,
I get in a car accident
and my guts are hanging
out, don't send me
to a chiropractor.
And I don't need a
massage therapist.
And homeopathy is really
not going to help.
I want a surgeon.
>> Medicine is useful.
Pharmaceutical medicine,
therapeutic interventions,
surgery, et cetera are useful.
I would say, maybe
10% acute illnesses.
Otherwise, if you have
a chronic illness--
doesn't matter what it
is, cancer, heart disease,
autoimmune illnesses--
use a holistic approach,
which means everything
from mind, body, emotions,
energy healing, even
distant healing, anything that
influences your experience
of mind, body, emotions.
>> So with emergencies and
acute illness like injury
or infection, we
need a quick fix.
So thank God we have the most
advanced lifesaving technology.
But with chronic
illnesses, they've
developed over time, so the
quick fix model won't work.
We need to get to the
root cause if we're
going to make a change.
I'm going to speak to a guy who
is helping thousands of people
get to that root cause.
He uses, well, a different
kind of diagnostic technology.
>> Let me do a little of this.
Just hang on.
Um, we thought you had
a heart murmur before,
but it looks good.
It all started at age four.
Woke up one morning to a
voice that I call Spirit,
and this voice talked to me just
like someone else is talking
to, like, you or if you're
hearing someone talk
or you're talking
to someone else.
So it's in real time.
And then that evening at the
dinner table with my family
all sitting around,
Spirit appeared,
asked me to come out of my seat.
I came out, walked
up to my grandmother.
Then Spirit took my hand,
put it on my grandma--
and I put it on my
grandmother's chest.
And Spirit said,
pronounce "lung cancer."
Say that grandmother
has lung cancer.
Grandma has lung cancer.
A few weeks later, they
brought her in out of curiosity
because it just
couldn't leave us.
We couldn't forget about it.
And she had lung cancer.
That's how it started.
Lower back's not as
good as it should be.
But I don't know if you
go to a chiropractor.
>> I-- like, weekly.
>> Weekly?
>> Yeah.
>> OK, is he working on that?
I feel like I have a
spasm that's right there.
>> Yeah, that's from--
>> From many years.
>> That's from L3, L4.
>> Yeah.
>> OK.
But that's OK.
I like that stuff.
This is fun because
you're really healthy.
Breaks my heart when someone
has something serious wrong
with them.
>> How do you convince the
skeptics out there to believe
you?
>> It's really not an issue.
And I don't really run
into too many skeptics,
actually, to tell you the truth.
I'm sure there's plenty
of them out there.
But when you're in this where
you want to help people,
you want to give them the
answers and people are
suffering out there and they got
chronic illness and the answers
aren't out there, it's
not about the skeptics.
It's not about that.
It's about the person
getting better.
It's about the person healing.
It's about what they need.
That's the focus.
So I really don't
focus on the skeptics.
>> Talk about these
chronic mystery illnesses.
Doctors have labeled them
autoimmune disorders.
>> The reason we call it
autoimmune is because we
don't know the cause of
the symptoms or the disease
or illness that's occurring.
Look into psoriasis and eczema--
cause unknown.
Multiple sclerosis--
Fibromyalgia-- cause known.
Rheumatoid arthritis--
cause unknown.
What's happening is there's
a pathogen involved.
There's something
causing the problem--
a toxin or a pathogen.
It's causing the symptoms.
The body is trying to
protect you from it.
The key to getting
rid of it is knowing
how to use certain things, like
certain herbs, certain foods.
Most importantly is the foods,
to know what starves it.
>> Treating certain toxins and
pathogens with diet and herbs
really resonates with me.
Turning to nature
and food as medicine
is what ancient civilizations
have been doing successfully
for thousands of years.
I know that when I cleaned up
my diet, the positive effect
on not only my physical health
but my mental health, as well,
was huge.
And this is why I thought a
good place for Eva to start
was to see a nutritionist.
>> With Eva, she's got
a barrage of symptoms.
One thing in particular, as
I looked at her blood lab,
is that she is really
inflamed-- chronic inflammation.
We literally have trillions
of bacterial microbes,
good microbes in our body.
We actually have more
bacteria in our body
than we do our own human cells.
And the majority of
these live in our gut.
And what the
microbiome is is it's
like a little universe in itself
inside our gut that constantly
is cleansing us, stimulating
immunity, building vitamins,
and keeping pathogens
out of our system.
So if someone's
microbiome gets killed off
for various reasons--
mostly bad diet, stress,
medications, perhaps--
you can kill off enough
for that microbiome
where the actual intestinal
wall starts to get injured.
So if your intestinal wall
starts getting holes in it,
junk is bleeding
into your bloodstream
and then going all
over your body.
The key is we got
to remove that.
We got to remove the
offending items, fix the diet,
and get her to heal.
We're going to start her
on the diet this week.
So a whole-food,
plant-based diet
is really an unprocessed,
predominately plant-based food.
What does that mean?
That means vegetables and fruits
and whole grains and legumes,
all the foods that
are nutrient rich.
So if we can stimulate
your immune system,
remove the offending
things you're
doing to yourself
every day, you'll
heal way faster than it took
to get in the disease process.
And that's the
beauty of healing.
>> Over the last decade or even
more so, the amount of research
that's come out in the
scientific journals showing
without any shadow of a doubt
that there is such a thing
as a mind-body connection--
I mean, thinking, believing,
emotions all cause really
substantial chemical
and physiological,
biological changes all
throughout the body.
And I love that that's
how much of a transition
we've made in the
last decade or two
from woo-woo stuff about
the mind-body connection
to hard, factual,
scientific evidence.
I have a PhD in
organic chemistry.
It's nothing at all to
do with organic foods.
An organic chemist basically
plays the child's LEGO game,
but we do it with atoms.
So people like me end up in
the pharmaceutical industry.
So I worked for one
of the world's largest
pharmaceutical companies
developing drugs
for cardiovascular
disease and for cancer.
And although I loved
doing what I was doing,
I loved the science of it, but
what fascinated me more so,
I would say, was what happens
when you test the drugs.
So let's say in a
typical trial you
might give 100 people a
drug to show that it works.
So you've also got to give 100
people a placebo for comparison
purposes.
And you might get, say, 75
people improving on a drug.
But it's not uncommon to get
40, 50, 60, 70 74, 75 sometimes
even also improving
on the placebo
because they think
they're getting a drug.
And I thought, whoa,
that's amazing.
What we see here is belief
itself shifts biology.
And I don't think that's taught
enough in medical schools.
>> So how is it that you can
give someone a sugar pill,
a saline injection, or perform
some false surgery or treatment
and a certain percentage of
those people will accept,
believe, and surrender to the
thought that they're getting
the actual substance or
treatment and they begin
to program their autonomic
nervous system to make
their own pharmacy of chemicals
that matches the exact same
chemical they think
they're taking?
So the question is, is
it the inert substance
that's doing the healing or is
it the body's innate capacity
to heal?
>> Well, everyone seems to be
aware of the placebo effect,
the result of positive thinking.
The important question
is this-- what
is the consequence
of negative thinking?
Oh, guess what?
It's equally powerful in
influencing your life,
but it works in the
opposite direction.
While a placebo,
positive thinking,
can cure you of anything,
a nocebo, negative belief,
can actually cause any
illness and can cause death
just because you believe that.
>> We give too much authority
to someone in a white coat.
You know, I remember
one time someone came in
and they were really crying
because they had received
a tremendous diagnosis
and prognosis,
and the doctor said, the
doctor said, the doctor said.
So I said, I'll be right back.
And I went out, and I got
a white coat and put it on,
and I put my name tag on, and
it said Dr. Michael Beckwith.
And I came in.
I said, I'm Dr.
Michael Beckwith,
and I want you to know that
your life is about to get
better and better and better.
You've had a tremendous wake-up
call about tremendous habits
that you have had
for many, many years.
You're about to break that
cycle of those bad habits,
and you're going to
watch your body change.
You're going to watch
yourself come into a greater
sense of fulfillment.
And then I got a
prescription tablet,
and I said, every
day, this is what
I want you to say to yourself.
This is what I want you to read.
This is what I want
you to not eat.
This is what I want you to eat.
Come see me in 30 days
and tell me how you feel.
And she went from
crying to just laughing
because she realized that
she had given her power away.
It doesn't mean you
don't go to a doctor.
It doesn't mean you don't
follow good medical advice.
But if you just give yourself
over to an external authority
figure, you basically
become a victim twice,
victim to the condition
and the diagnosis,
and now you become a victim to
an authority figure telling you
about what's going to
happen in your life.
>> OK, so believe the diagnosis.
Now you can do
something about it.
But don't believe the prognosis.
Prognosis is when
somebody says, you
have three months to live or
60% of people die in six months.
It's like telling what
the temperature is now,
knowing the average
temperature for the year.
If you're from New York City
and the average temperature
is 75 degrees, it
doesn't tell me
what the temperature
is right now.
>> You know, statistics
are impersonal,
and you are a person, and no
one knows what you're capable
of or where you're going to go.
If someone says, well,
there's a less than 1%
chance of recovering from
the kind of cancer you have,
well, someone's got to be that
1%, and why couldn't it be you?
>> It's important for people to
understand when they're given
a diagnosis that if they fall
prey to the prognosis without
actually considering that
there's other options,
without actually realizing that
they may have to do something
differently, that they may
have to make new choices,
that they are going to have
to get beyond certain emotions
and overcome their
limited thinking.
If they can understand that
if they're able to do that,
more possibilities
open up as the result
of their own personal changes.
That's when you start to see
all kinds of magical things
start to appear in
a person's life.
>> When the doctors gave you
the diagnosis and the prognosis,
were they trying to rush you
into chemo and radiation?
Like--
>> Yes, and I wasn't going to
do it, because I always swore,
with the acupuncture background,
that I believe in natural
medicine and natural healing.
So I wasn't going to do it.
I was going to go to
any of the places that
do the natural healing
with the juices and things.
But I have a brother
that's a rocket scientist,
and I value his opinion.
And he said, Lizzy, you're
not going to make it.
You've been juicing
all your life.
More juice isn't going
to save your life.
You've got stage four.
You've got to do something.
But it still took me
another month and a half
because I wouldn't do it.
I was going to not do the chemo.
And so, finally, enough
people gathered me up
and brought me in.
So I did it.
And then I started doing a
lot of spiritual healing.
My friends did a fundraiser
that went kind of fast and wild
because people were
like, oh my gosh,
if Elizabeth Craig has got
cancer, we're all going to die.
So they raised the money for me.
So I started doing--
going to all the alternative
healers I could find,
because I thought,
if nothing else,
maybe I can just
chronologue the whole thing
and share it with people,
and then it'll be--
people will learn from that.
Dianne Porchia was one
of the people I called.
And she's a spiritual
psychologist.
>> Healing Topanga.
>> Originally, the primary
purpose for calling her was
so that I could die not afraid,
because I was afraid to die.
And they said that it
wasn't looking good.
>> This guy's fear,
panic, or an anxiety.
But I turn him around--
>> But through the process,
instead of that happening,
I started to feel miracles.
>> The first session that we had
together was actually the day
that she got her
chest port put in.
And I didn't know that she
was going to arrive with that,
and that was such a tremendous
first step that she had to take
in her cancer treatment.
>> They've got me on a
cocktail, they call it.
I had one, mitomycin,
that was in a little bag,
and they ran it into
the port, and then
they attached me to this one.
>> It's so stressful to think
that someone is invading
your body and then
having medicine,
which we know is very scary.
You know, so she had to
make friends with that.
>> Some people get the port
in their arm, their upper arm,
and other people
get it in the chest.
Dianne just kept working with
me and saying, this is medicine,
it's going to heal you,
this is good for you.
And I think that made all
the difference in the world.
>> We have to relate to it
as something that is targeted
medicine, see it as little
Pac-Mans or little soldiers
that are there just
attacking the cancer cells,
leaving everything else
intact and not being harmed,
because the body does
want to move into balance.
>> Let's go.
I started calling him-- because
he was my little chemo pack,
I called him Chemo Sabe.
>> Chemo Sabe, all right.
>> Dianne helped me change my
attitude that he was medicine
and not poison.
>> The power of belief is--
it's almost everything.
It really is.
What you are believing and
thinking at this moment
is telling your immune
system to either stop and not
work because we got to run
from a stressor or everything's
cool.
Why don't we relax,
and if there's
anything that needs to
be cleaned up, clean up.
That's it.
You're either in fight or flight
or you're in rest and repair,
and it's your beliefs
that toggle that switch.
So beliefs are everything.
>> Back in 1968, I was learning
how to clone stem cells.
And back at that
time, just a handful
of people in the entire world
even knew what a stem cell was.
So I was in the right
place at the right time
to make some
interesting discoveries.
I put one stem cell
in culture by itself.
It divides every 10 or 12 hours.
At first, there's one, then
2, 4, 8, 16, 32, doubling.
So I have 50,000
genetically identical cells.
That's not the experiment.
This is.
I split the cells into three
different Petri dishes.
And what I do is I change
the chemical composition
of the culture medium.
Culture medium is the
equivalent of blood.
So if I'm growing mouse
cells, then what I do
is look at mouse blood,
see what it's made out of,
and then try to make a synthetic
version of that called culture
medium.
So here's the point--
genetically identical
cells in three dishes
but slightly
different environment
because of the chemistry.
In one dish, the
cells form muscle.
In a second dish,
the cells form bone.
And in a third dish, the
cells form fat cells.
Significance-- what controls
the fate of the cells?
Point-- they were all
genetically identical.
The environment is what was
selecting the genetic activity
of the cells.
>> People who have the
same DNA, who have the same
susceptibility to illness, one
can become ill and the other
can stay well.
One can heal, and
the other can't,
all because they optimize the
environmental factors that
control gene activity.
And that's what the field
of epigenetics is all about.
>> The nature of
biology is simple.
Biological organisms
adapt their biology
to fit into an environment.
Let's say I'm looking at the
activity of my liver cells
in the body, and I say,
well, my liver cells
should be adjusting to what's
going on in the environment.
And I say, well, how does
a liver cell know what's
going on in the environment?
And the answer is this--
the liver cell is not
touching the environment.
It depends on the nervous
system to send information
about the environment
inside the body,
so the cells adjust
their biology
to match what's going
on in the world.
Well, we only have one problem
with that, and that is this--
consciousness is
an interpretation.
So my mind is interpreting
the environment.
So if I change my
perception, my mind,
change my belief about
life, I change the signals
that are going in and adjusting
the function of the cell.
The point is very,
very significant.
I, by my ability to
change my environment
and by my ability to change my
perception of the environment,
have the ability to control
my genetic activity.
I'm not a victim of my heredity.
I'm a master of my
genetic activity.
In understanding how we
deal with the environment
and deal with
perception, there is
a mind between the
environment and my cells.
And when I say "the
mind," everyone
thinks of a single
entity, "the mind."
The mind is comprised of two
interdependent elements that
work together, and
that's the conscious mind
and the subconscious mind.
The conscious mind, the
latest evolution of the brain,
is the creative mind.
When the conscious mind
is engaged in thinking,
the subconscious is the
default program, the autopilot.
So my conscious mind
could be engaged,
but my subconscious
mind will carry out
whatever chore I'm doing--
walking, driving the car,
communicating with
another person.
I don't need my
conscious mind for that.
I already have programs of
how to do all those things.
When we look at the
world, we're actually
operating through the
subconscious mind.
The programs in the
subconscious mind
primarily came from downloading
other people's behaviors--
your mother, your father,
your siblings, your community,
and the first seven
years of life.
>> We are essentially an
open sponge to the world,
absorbing the patterns from
all of those people that we are
exposed to and surrounded with.
So if we have caregivers
who are really conscious
and have learned to
manage their emotions
and heal their hurts
in a healthy way,
that's a really good thing.
Very few people I
know were blessed
enough to come from
those families.
>> Let's say we're growing
up in an environment where
there's trauma in
the household--
alcoholism, family conflict,
inflamed relationships.
And when we don't have tools to
process our emotions in a given
moment, that becomes a memory
that's not fully formed.
We end up seeing our
self and the world
around us as if we're
still four years of age
in an environment of just
conflict and trauma and drama.
We filter and therefore feel
that again and again every time
colors, sounds, smells,
taste, feelings get triggered.
Boom.
We react as if that memory were
going on for the first time.
So you can attempt to outrun
the subconscious mind,
just like you attempt
to outrun a shadow.
You can't.
You got to turn
around to face it.
You got to see the problem as
the portal and so recognizing
that these symptoms and
stressors are meaningful
and brilliantly intelligent
in waking us up.
>> I was going twice a
week to visit Dianne.
My brother would drive me
up and do the sessions.
And the funny thing
is every time-- well,
after the first few--
no, actually, I'd say every
one of them, I would think,
I have no idea what
I'm going to say.
I don't feel like
anything's wrong.
I don't know, you know?
OK, we'll just talk.
And then somehow she would do,
like, an exercise or a thing,
and then something
would come out,
extracted from some place in the
past that I never-- you know,
like talk therapy wouldn't get
to this or your own thinking
or whatever.
I lovingly forgive and
release all of the past.
I choose to fill my
world with joy and love
and approval of myself.
Working with Dianne, we started
working on all those feelings--
the grief, the sadness,
the fear of the cancer
and then things that were
deep down inside that I
had no idea were residing,
like, old stuff that I really
didn't even think of.
>> And why is that you?
>> She kind of takes
what everybody gives her,
and she didn't
really ask for much,
and she's gonna get better.
>> Elizabeth identified a
time in her life when she felt
really pathetic.
There was an
incident where she--
all the kids were supposed
to bring something to school,
and she brought Graham crackers.
That's all she had to bring.
And they made fun of her.
So she just kind of
adopted this belief
that that was pathetic,
how pathetic that was.
And she carried that with
her for a lot of years,
I mean, into adulthood without
even understanding or realizing
how that pathetic self-image
would carry forward
in relationships and adult life.
Dear guide, ask the
spirit's assistance
and go for the deepest healing.
The healing tools can
involve inner child
healing work, sacred anger work.
>> Yeah, I've got it right now.
Boy, am I mad right now.
I'm mad.
>> So the sacred anger
work, when that comes up,
when there's anger in a
session that's ready to move,
we will go out on
the back hillside,
and we throw rocks and to throw
these rocks as hard as they can
and move that stuck energy.
>> I didn't know that I had
such a detrimental mindset.
I thought that it was
a pretty good one.
But the cancer
personality style,
the I don't want to be a
burden, the it's easier for me
to give love than
to ask for it, it
was really important for me
to learn how to ask for help
and connect--
to connect.
>> You know, there's this
tendency for people to feel
like they did something
wrong if they got sick.
But if we aren't aware
that we have limiting
and negative subconscious
beliefs running our lives,
then we can't blame
ourselves for getting sick.
If we stay in fear
and resistance,
we not only waste
valuable energy
that we could use to heal,
but we are closed off
to information and possibility.
If instead we ask
ourselves, what
is this pain or condition
trying to tell me,
it creates space
so that the answers
can come into our awareness.
>> I've always, even
from when I was young,
been fascinated with
health and wellness,
being the best you can be.
It was always part of even
going through high school
and college.
And then I came across
Ayurveda probably
about 16 to 17 years ago.
I was sitting there,
and I was like, finally,
someone knows what the
hell they're talking about.
>> The constitution
is with the water.
>> I think one of my favorite
parts is that we have something
called Samprapti, which is a
Sanskrit name which describes
the process of how a disease
comes into existence.
And there's six stages.
And when I first heard this,
it was just so beautiful
and so simple.
And the first stage
is accumulation.
You accumulate too much
of what we call a dosha.
Dosha is the quality of energy.
You've got too much fire.
You've got too much air.
You've got too much earth
and water in your system.
So let's take fire.
If you accumulate too
much fire in your system,
you may have a symptom of, like,
a sour belch from time to time.
No big deal.
But that would be a sign
of there's too much heat
in the system.
The next stage is aggravation.
Now it becomes
aggravating to the system,
so that what was
a sour belch now
becomes a little
bit of heartburn.
>> Oh!
>> Don't eat the food you
eat during the day haunt you
at night.
>> Again, in this day
and age, no problem.
We've got the solution, right?
You take Prilosec,
Nexium, whatever.
You don't actually
deal with why do
I have the imbalance, because
it's considered somewhat
normal to have heartburn.
The next stage is spread.
So now the excess heat that's
in the system that hasn't been
addressed-- because that
individual is still eating too
much spicy food, still
drinking alcohol,
putting too much heat
into the system--
spreads.
The fourth stage
is localization.
So now that excess heat
that's in the system that
started with
accumulation now finds
a weak spot in the system where
we've lost some integrity.
Let's say, the guy
we're talking about
was a football
player in high school
and maybe took one too
many blows to the knee
and his knee's a little funky.
That would be an ideal place for
the excess heat to find a home.
So now that progresses over
time to maybe arthritis.
So it becomes
manifest as disease.
And then the six stages,
it becomes diversified.
So now it actually alters
the tissue system itself.
Maybe it becomes
rheumatoid arthritis.
So the beauty of that system
is, if you understand those six
stages, that if you
want to prevent disease,
what do you prevent?
Excess accumulation.
Prevent buildup.
Now, to me, where the biggest
buildup is is right here.
And so you see the
whole disease process
applies to the physiology
and the psychology.
>> We've been e-mailing
back and forward--
>> Yes.
>> --before our meeting
today of things that you want
to approach.
>> Right.
>> And why do you feel that it's
time for you to work on this?
>> I think it's the physical
aspect of it that's forcing me
to realize that maybe there's
something more to it than just
being sick physically, past
emotions that are maybe
affecting me.
>> When we go on a plane,
we're frightened, yeah?
>> Right.
>> We have a physical response
to something that's happening
emotionally, which is
we have sweaty palms.
We have heart palpitations.
So that's a physical response
to something emotional.
>> Right, yeah.
That makes sense.
>> Now, imagine if you were
denying something daily,
and it has nowhere to go
until it starts to build.
Ad it builds, and it
builds, and it builds into--
pick your disease.
>> This idea that emotional
blockages can lead to physical
blockages--
so the idea, then,
is to release them.
And you can do that
however you want to.
Some people let it
go in a Zumba class.
Other people went to see a
shaman and did soul retrieval.
You know, it's across the board.
Some people did
psychotherapy some people
burned all the letters
from their ex-husband.
So it really is whatever
works, whatever's
going to allow you to
let go of that anger,
to let go of that
resentment or that grief
or that trauma, especially
trauma, which can often
be locked away inside your
brain in the subconscious part.
>> So we're going to do
emotional freedom technique.
We spoke about it the other day.
And it took a little bit
to get to the emotions
because you're so good at
delaying them and pretending--
>> Hiding them.
>> --that everything's fine.
And-- but we took
a lot of notes,
and the emotional
freedom is being
able to go there, being
able to go to the thing
that we suppress and
allow it to come up.
I'm frightened of the unknown.
>> I'm frightened
of the unknown.
of what I know--
>> I'm frightened
>> --and what I don't know.
of what I know--
>> I'm frightened
>> --and what I don't know.
of what I know--
>> I'm frightened
>> --and what I don't know.
>> I'm frightened of
what might come up.
>> When we have an
emotion within our hearts,
that emotion sends a
signal to our brain,
and the quality of that signal
determines what the brain does
in response to the emotion.
So if you can imagine a signal
from the heart to the brain
that is a very smooth series of
waves, nice, even, coherent--
is the term that's used--
waves from the
heart to the brain.
The brain will match that
smooth, even, organized
chemistry.
And it will release
the chemistry that
supports life into our bodies.
This is where our immune
systems become really
strong, super immune response.
On the other hand,
the stress chemistry--
when we feel those moments
of frustration, anger, hate,
jealousy, rage, fear, the
signal looks different.
It looks kind like a bad
day on the stock market.
It's a lot of very chaotic,
unorganized, jagged waves going
from the heart to the brain.
And the brain
receives those waves
and says, oh, I need to
match this chemistry.
This is stress chemistry.
>> When we're in
a state of stress,
our energy field goes into
a state of resistance.
That's why polygraph works.
You know, we're able to read it.
In that energy, our
blood is affected.
It doesn't flow as effectively.
Heats up, cools down.
When we're in stress,
there's resistance.
That affects our pH.
And we become more acidic when
we're in a state of stress.
In a localized or systemic
full-body acidity,
inflammation occurs.
And it's just a reactive way of
pumping more blood to attempt
to help with healing.
However, we're starting to
go down a slippery slope
because that
inflammation is a fire,
and that fire starts
to burn the house down.
>> So we have things building.
>> Yeah, maybe.
>> Things just build
and build and build,
and then they come
out in the skin.
>> Yeah.
Things that you pretend
don't bother you.
>> Right.
>> What about your mother?
You mentioned your
mother in the email.
>> I can't even go there.
>> You can go there.
This is the opportunity.
>> Yeah.
Well, we're estranged.
We don't speak.
>> Yeah.
>> It's been off and on like
that for 10 years, maybe more.
>> Is she ill?
>> Mentally?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, I would say so.
She's on Valium.
She's on a lot of stuff
before, and she's weaned down
over the years, I think.
But it's very-- it
affected her a lot.
You know, just--
OK, you have to go pay the rent,
you have to do this, you know,
all of this at a very young
age, third, fourth grade.
So it was a lot of
responsibility very young.
I started driving
very young so I
could drive her to
work and drop her off,
ironing her outfit for work
or doing certain things that
just were a lot.
>> You were the
mother of the mother.
>> I think so.
>> Yeah.
Where's your father?
>> Oh, he couldn't deal
with her craziness either,
so he left when I was maybe 11.
He just left and
never came back.
>> And you've never
seen him since?
>> No.
>> Ready?
Take a nice deep breath.
Even though--
>> Even though--
>> --it was a lot
for me to take on--
>> --but I did it anyway.
>> I deeply--
>> --and profoundly--
>> --send that
little girl my love--
>> --even though--
>> --it was a lot
for me to take on.
>> But I did it anyway.
>> I deeply--
>> --and profoundly--
>> --love and accept
that little girl--
>> --even though--
>> --it was a lot
for her to take on.
>> But she did it anyway.
>> I deeply--
>> --and profoundly--
>> --send her my love.
>> It was a lot
for her to take on.
>> It was a big burden.
>> But who else
was going to do it?
>> Who else was going to do it?
>> He left.
>> I picked up all the slack.
>> I picked up all the slack--
>> --because I loved her.
>> I loved her.
>> And I wasn't
going to abandon her.
>> I wasn't going
to abandon her.
>> Take a deep breath.
How do you feel?
>> Good.
>> How do you feel
about her now?
>> Mm.
>> Every authentic spiritual
path has some mention or some
teaching around forgiveness.
I always say that
all forgiveness
is self-forgiveness,
because the resentment I
may hold towards another
or the unforgiveness
or the rancor or the resentment,
all of those thoughts
are happening within me.
Even if someone did me wrong,
I still have those thoughts.
Those thoughts are affecting me.
They're affecting
my body temple.
my blood chemistry.
They're affecting everything.
So when I begin to forgive
the so-called other person,
I'm releasing rancor,
resentment, animosity.
I'm releasing all that
unforgiveness so that I'm
actually forgiving myself.
Now, that doesn't necessarily
let the other person
off the hook for whatever
they did or didn't do
or should have done or
should not have done.
It has nothing to do with them.
It has everything to do with me.
>> Forgiveness, when
it comes to emotions,
is the greatest
access to letting go.
The hatred you
have over a parent,
the judgment you
have of a coworker,
the wrong-making you
have towards your spouse,
just let go of that inner
judgment, blame, and basically
a victim mindset.
If you can let go of that and
recognize that life is actually
working for you,
not against you,
then, again, you're going
to generate healing.
>> So now I have a really
good idea how trauma,
negative emotions, and
subconscious beliefs can lead
to disease and might be
something we have to look
at in order to heal.
But what about the kids that
come into this world already
sick or children that get
sick at a really young age?
Surely their condition can't be
a result of accumulated stress
or unprocessed trauma or
disempowering beliefs.
Why do they get sick?
>> So people ask me,
what about children?
You know, children,
young children
that come into this world
with some condition,
how can that be from
their subconscious?
Or is it?
And the answer to that is
that we simply don't know.
I just have to be honest and
say that every human that
emerges into this world, what
has happened before we got here
is different for all of us,
and we have no way of knowing.
And this is where we begin to
cross the boundaries of science
and spirituality and the words
like "karma" or "destiny"
or "fate."
We don't know what those are.
What I do know, without
any shadow of a doubt,
is once that being, once
that beautiful child arrives
in this world, their
bodies, their cells,
their DNA will respond to the
environment and the conditions
that we give to them.
Our job is to learn to
optimize those environments
and those conditions.
>> Individuals come
into the planet,
and many of them come into
the planet because they know
they're going to go
through some stuff,
and they're coming to uplevel
the awareness of the species.
So we don't look at it
like, well, this person was
born with this
disease, and that kid
was born with that disease,
you know, what's wrong.
Many of these individuals are
coming with very special gifts.
On another level, today,
a baby that's being born
is affected with tremendous--
more toxins than ever.
>> The World Health
Organization's classed outdoor
air pollution as carcinogenic--
>> When you look at so many
of the cancers, for instance,
we absolutely know--
this is not some mystery.
We know where a lot
of these come from.
They have to do with the
chemicals in the food.
They have to do with
chemicals in the air.
chemicals in the Earth.
So did human
consciousness create this?
Absolutely, but not necessarily
the consciousness of the person
who contracted the disease.
If you are truly treating
the Earth with reverence,
would you allow the level of
pollution and contaminants
that we allow?
If you were really thinking
about your children
with reverence and
wholly responsibility
to a future generation, would
you allow some of the things
that we allow?
So if the entire society
is allowing economic forces
to prevail rather than real
humanitarian principles
and love of the Earth
and love of each other
and love of our children, then
you get what we're getting.
>> Imagine for a moment popping
a pill before bed that costs
about $13.50.
Now, imagine waking
up the next morning,
find that the price is
the exact same pill jumped
to $750 overnight.
That is just what
happened to one drug.
Meg Tirrell joining us now
with that story and the man
who is behind that price spike.
Meg.
>> Thank you, Brian.
Martin Shkreli joins
us now from the NASDAQ.
He's the CEO of Turing
Pharmaceuticals.
Martin, thank you
for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Now, you guys have said that
the reason you increased this
price so much after acquiring
the drug was in order to do
the research and development
to develop a better version
of Daraprim.
I just got off the
phone with an HIV doctor
who told me they don't need a
better version of this drug.
What are you doing here?
>> We have the most money
going into health care than any
country in the world today,
and we have some of the worst
statistics of health care.
The problem is this--
the pharmaceutical industry
is a corporate industry.
Corporations-- what
are corporations?
They're systems where
people invest money
so they can make a profit.
>> I entered the pharmaceutical
industry as a young scientist,
and I just wanted
to cure cancer.
And it turns out that most
of my friends and colleagues
in the pharmaceutical industry,
all the scientists also, just
wanted, a lot of them, to
cure cancer, save lives.
It's only when you get
higher up in the company
that the goals begin to change.
>> Martin, we do
appreciate you coming.
I got to ask you
one more question.
In response to all
of this attention
and doctors and
patient groups saying
they can't access this drug, are
you going to change the price?
>> No.
>> So in my examination
of pharmaceutical products
in general, I began
to notice a pattern.
And the pattern is that we are
told that there is a problem.
And the problem may not actually
exist, at least not in the way
that we're told that it does.
And then we're offered
a product based
on resolution of
the fear inspired
by awareness of this problem.
>> Sleep-- remember when it
welcomed you like a friend?
Then, it became more elusive.
But why?
When you have insomnia,
it may affect the wake
neurotransmitters in your brain,
disrupting your wake and sleep
messages.
>> And in fact, if you follow
and dig into the literature,
what you'll find is that the
very product that's offered
to solve the problem actually
creates and perpetuates
the problem it
purports to resolve.
>> Hallucinations, the temporary
inability to move while falling
asleep or waking up, and
temporary leg weakness have
also been reported.
In depressed patients,
worsening depression,
including risk of
suicide, may occur.
Alcohol may increase
these risks.
Side effects include
next-day drowsiness.
>> Pharmaceutical industry
looks at the destination that it
wants to fix and ignores the
fact that when you add a drug
there are multiple drug
interactions which are not side
effects but direct effects.
>> So we have that, and then we
have to look at the efficacy,
like, do these
meds actually work?
Could those risks be worth it?
And that evidence
is really even more
concerning because we have
a body of evidence that
suggests that these
medications are
no better than a
placebo, a placebo,
of course, which wouldn't
incur those same risks.
And then there's the
bigger question of,
what are you opting out of
when you choose to manage
your symptoms in this way?
There's a story I
really love which
talks about a caterpillar
that's in the chrysalis,
and it's struggling to
get out, and there's
this little hole
in the chrysalis,
and there's a man nearby.
And he sort of feels
bad for the caterpillar.
It's trying to get out, right?
So he takes a pair of scissors,
and he snips the chrysalis.
And of course, the
caterpillar turns
into a butterfly that
dies, that never can fly,
because it needs to go through
the process of emergence
and struggle.
Literally, it
physically needs to do
that to be able to manifest.
>> You know, I've really taken
to Dr. Emerson's protocols.
>> The nutrition?
>> Yeah, it's really helping,
and he's really good about
keeping in communication,
even though he's in Hawaii.
>> Your numbers are outstanding.
I mean, it's unbelievable.
It's only been eight weeks that
you've been on our program,
and it's phenomenal.
>> So this last two flare-ups,
I haven't had the joint pains
since I started--
>> Amazing.
>> --the nutrition.
Because that's the
biggest thing is, I mean,
I can't even go up and down
the stairs to my bedroom.
I have to, like, stay
downstairs, sleep downstairs.
>> Well, here we are.
We're about to go get a sound
healing from Dr. Jeffrey
Thompson.
>> I'm putting these risk
sensors on her wrist.
This is just to
hold them in place.
These wrist sensors
are connected
to this laptop over here.
It's got a little sensor.
It's collecting the electrical
information from your heart.
As the sound sweeps into the
correct range for her body,
we'll see her nervous
system beginning to respond.
And when it hits
the spot, I'm going
to make a cue mark on my
program here so I can identify
what frequency we need to use.
We use very precisely tuned
sound frequencies for healing.
My innovation is to expose the
body to these precisely tuned
sound waves until I
find a sound wave that
makes the sympathetic nervous
system push in the clutch.
Here we go.
It's getting there,
getting really close.
That's it right there.
But that's what
we're looking for is
zero, zero stress in the
autonomic nervous system,
or homeostasis.
Now, normally, I would
expect it to look
like this, where
it comes down, hits
that point and then goes
off into parasympathetic,
the green.
But hers didn't do that.
She hit the point, but she went
back into the stress response
again.
It means that she's
had this chronic stress
condition for a long time.
And when it begins to
respond to the sound waves
and it starts to
push in the clutch,
it took a little bit of
extra time to get there.
But once it did get
there, it wasn't
able to completely cross over
and go into the relaxation
phase, which is what
parasympathetic nervous system
is, the relaxation response,
because her nervous system is
still too worried to go
there, to completely let go.
So people ask me,
what kind of condition
can you heal with this?
And my answer at this
point is anything
that has stress as its cause.
And as far as I'm concerned,
that's pretty much everything.
Welcome back.
>> Wow.
>> It's the first words out
of everybody's mouth is "wow."
OK, there we go.
>> What Dr. Thompson showed me
is that Eva is in a constant
state of stress.
Even when she's relaxing,
it's hard for her
to fully switch over into the
parasympathetic nervous system,
which is where you need
to be if you want to heal.
So that just proves to
me that healing really
needs to take place
on multiple levels.
When it comes to
stress, the tool
that's absolutely changed
my life and I know millions
of others is meditation.
>> Meditation has been around
for thousands of years.
The mind is yapping
all the time,
and it's telling us generally
scary and limiting things.
The mind is wonderful when
you're using it as a tool.
It's not so great when
it's calling the shots.
In the very first
research on meditation
done by a mentor of
mine, Dr. Herbert Benson,
he said, well, it shuts down
the fight or flight response,
the fear response,
and it stimulates
the parasympathetic or relaxing
nervous system of the body.
And that's what heals.
So at the very most basic level,
meditation relieves stress.
>> If you wake up in the
morning, you take a shower,
you take a bath, because
you don't want to take
yesterday's dirt with
you out into the day.
But if I wake up in the
morning and I immediately
go to television or radio
or the computer or newspaper
and I'm taking in all
the stress of the world,
then I might cleanse
my body, but my mind
is carrying so much stress.
So that's why meditating
in the morning
is as important as is taking
a bath, purifying your mind,
purifying your consciousness.
>> There are many
kinds of meditation.
There are meditations that
involve self-reflection.
So you sit quietly, and
you ask yourself, who am I?
There are forms
of meditation that
are called
self-questioning, which
is questioning your beliefs.
Third form of meditation is
what is these days called
mindfulness, which is a
terrible word because you're not
using your mind when you're
practicing awareness.
The awareness of a
thought is not a thought.
And then there is what
is called transcendence,
which is usually using a
technique like a mantra.
The mantra is kind
of a sound that
competes with your thoughts
and ultimately takes you
to a place where there is
no thought and no mantra,
and you're just
left with awareness.
So as we practice
these techniques,
we get in touch, my mind
with our core being,
our core consciousness,
which in spiritual traditions
is often called the soul.
>> Your pituitary gland does
amazing things when you are
in meditation.
It releases oxytocin,
dopamine, relaxant, serotonin,
endorphins.
Everything good that
your body can make
is released when you make
this spiritual connection.
There really is this
internal process
that we can flip on
like a light switch.
We can flip on
these juices of life
if we just take a
moment to connect.
It doesn't have to be
meditation or prayer.
It could be going
for a walk in nature.
But your mind needs to quiet.
Your breathing needs
to slow and you want
to feel that unshakable peace.
>> We did an amazing study
just a little ways back at one
of our advanced workshops.
We took 120 people,
and we wanted
to measure their
circulating cortisol levels
and a chemical called
immunoglobulin A, or IgA.
We put them through 4
and 1/2 days of training.
And at the end of
4 and 1/2 days,
we measured to see if there
were any epigenetic changes
or chemical changes that took
place by their internal work.
We found that the
majority of people's
cortisol levels
diminished, which
means they were no
longer in survival.
They were no longer stressed.
But the relevant
thing that happened
was that their IgA levels went
from about 51 and 1/2 to 83,
right to the ceiling of
what's considered high.
And some people were
up in the hundreds.
Now, IgA is the primary defense
against bacteria and viruses.
It's greater than any flu shot.
>> The best part of our
meditation is it doesn't cost
anything.
You can do it anywhere, anytime.
Just quiet the mind and get rid
of that excess mental baggage.
But the mind isn't all bad.
You can actually
use your imagination
through visualization to
activate a powerful healing
response.
>> What if I told you to do a
simple exercise of imagination,
to go to your refrigerator,
open it up, find a lemon,
take the lemon, put it
on the cutting board,
cut the thing in half,
take a look at it--
juice is welling up--
and stick out your
tongue and lick it.
Your salivary glands
would go crazy,
and it was all in
your imagination.
So there's no question
that what we imagine
can affect our physiology.
>> For several years, I've
been collecting stories,
testimonies, interviewing
several hundred people
who've used visualization as
some part of their healing
journey.
And amazingly, what,
like, 99% of them do
is you take an internal
picture of illness
and convert it into an
internal picture of wellness.
And that's it.
It's illness to wellness.
That's it.
And they just do it over
and over and over again.
So to give you a few examples
of the strategy of illness
to wellness, people who are even
getting chemotherapy the chemo
drugs as little piranha
fish going, [MUNCHING]
and nibbling at the tumor.
But in their mind's
eye, what they're seeing
is the tumor getting smaller and
smaller and smaller and smaller
till it's got.
People in radiotherapy
imagine the radiation
that bolts of lightning going
pew, pew, pew, pew, pew,
and bombing chunks
out of the tumor.
But again, tumor's getting
smaller and smaller and smaller
till it's gone.
>> Toward the end of the
treatment, I was really weak.
So Dianne called,
and she said, do you
want to have your session?
And I said, I don't
think I can make it.
I can't really get up.
I was just laying down a lot.
I couldn't really get up.
And so she came to visit
me to give me a session.
And when she got there,
I was just shaking.
So she said, I think
you're running a fever.
She gave me the thermometer,
and it was 103.5.
So she said, we need to
take you to the hospital.
So she drove me to
the hospital, and it
was going up as we're driving.
I got to the emergency
room, and they
started giving antibiotic
bags one after another,
and nothing was working.
I just remember I could
hear my heartbeat.
It was like I could hear
water and air, [WHOOSHING]
really loud.
The fever kept going up.
And I kind of thought, oh,
I wonder if this is it.
When I woke up, my brother
was standing outside the glass
door with a laptop.
And he was telling me,
they're praying for you.
They did a group prayer on
Facebook with over 100 people.
And right after that,
I kind of came out.
That's pretty good.
>> How could my prayer,
how could my meditation,
how could my loving thoughts
of gratitude and appreciation
possibly impact the healing of
another person in the room with
me or halfway around the world?
And the answer is
that we are deeply
connected through a phenomenon
that is known as entanglement.
Entanglement is the term
in physics that tells us,
once something is unified, once
something begins as a whole,
even though it is separated
physically by many miles
or light years-- is what
they're finding in the cosmos--
energetically, everything's
still connected.
Why is that important?
Because if we go back
far enough in time,
there was a point in time
when you, me, and the Earth
were all connected
before what is
called the Big Bang, the
big release of energy.
When that happened, physically,
particles began to separate.
Energetically, the
particles remain connected.
We are part of this Earth.
And we are part of one another.
And that empowers
you and it empowers
me to participate in the
healing of our bodies
and those of our loved ones
in ways that science is only
beginning to understand.
>> So entanglement explain
scientifically how our prayers
might work.
But there's a whole
aspect of faith and prayer
that can't be explained
through science.
People travel all over
the world to holy sites
to receive energy
or faith healing.
Is it their unshakable belief
in God's power and therefore
the placebo effect that is
responsible for the healing?
Or is there an
actual divine energy
that is causing
their transformation?
Either way, I'm fascinated
by the mystical.
And if faith healing
works for people,
why not respect the possibility
and keep an open mind?
>> Everybody take a nice breath.
So let me just tell you
a little bit about me,
because you might
be a little curious.
I was born into a
very religious family.
We were taught to pray, right?
We were taught to
ask God for help.
So what I learned as a child
was that if you trust--
if you ask God and you
trust and you believe
and then you get out of the
way, then anything's possible.
>> I have a brain tumor
called a meningioma,
and there is no cure for it.
So you're constantly
wondering, what's
going on inside of your head?
Is it growing?
And you have things like
that and a little bit of fear
because you don't know
if the thing's going
to explode and grow faster.
>> So please understand,
I'm not doing anything.
Please understand
that everything
that you'll see happen is
coming from the divine.
There are no spirit guides.
There are no entities.
I'm just grateful that,
for whatever reason,
the divine has chosen
me to work through.
Let all that stuff go.
Let me get all of it,
every last bit of it.
Let me have it.
Shake your head.
Shake your hand.
Shake it out.
New hairdo.
Cool.
You doing OK, brother?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> You came in
here wanting this,
whatever's going on
with you, to be gone,
and so they're
taking that as a--
>> I'm cleaning.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm vibrating.
>> Does he look different?
>> Wow.
>> Nice work.
>> My face was, like,
on fire, so to speak.
It was electrical
current and pulse,
but it went throughout
my whole body.
And when I stood
up, I was shaking.
But it was a good shake.
It was different.
I've never felt anything
like this in my life.
Oh-wee, man.
Holy shit.
Oh-wee.
Ooh.
Holy shit.
>> You see, this is why I get
up in the morning, right here.
I mean, all of you.
But this is like the perfect--
like, you see what's possible.
>> Oh my God.
Oh.
>> What are you noticing
in your body so far?
>> I thought it would be
really hard to let go because I
don't know who I am
without being sick.
>> Yeah, well-- and?
>> I feel like I've tried--
I'm trying to--
>> You're do it, girl.
You're not trying.
You're doing.
Big difference.
Let it go.
What she just said is,
like, the bottom line
with so many people.
They don't know what
it's going to be what,
what it would be like to
be well, and it's scary,
so they don't go there.
>> People say, well,
I don't have faith.
But actually, everyone
has faith of some kind.
You either have faith in
possibility or you have faith
that that possibility
doesn't exist.
And in a way, we have more
faith in the power of cancer
to kill us than we have
faith in the power of God,
the power of miracles, the
power of infinite possibility,
the power of any force other
than what our eyes can see
and our hands can touch
to actually interrupt
the power and the
trajectory of disease.
>> I had no idea what
was coming, you know?
I was just trying to
prepare myself for whatever
answer they gave me.
And Dianne took me
into the appointment,
and the oncologist said, well,
your scans came back all clear.
No cancer!
What?
And I was-- just started crying
and laughing at the same time.
And he said, yeah, we must
have misdiagnosed you.
>> What?
>> Yeah.
Well, I think because
he didn't think it
could be resolved so quickly.
It's a miracle.
The regimen always was,
with everyone-- they said,
it will be a two-year thing.
It'll be chemo first, then
chemoradiation, then surgery,
then more chemo, and that
would take two years.
And mine was gone in one round.
>> What were we doing last time?
I did our evaluation--
>> And even my oncologist,
who I thought was the best
of the-- that I could find.
They'd say, wow, it's
amazing, all of your hair
hasn't come out.
What are you doing?
You look really good.
Your numbers are good and stuff.
And I said, I'm
doing wheatgrass.
And he'd go, oh,
OK, well, whatever.
And I said, do you not
believe in wheatgrass?
And he said, no, but if
it makes you feel better.
They gave me two
different types.
And with the one, my hair
would have come out completely.
But with the two, yeah,
for sure, it was a goner.
And it never all came out.
I still had a good
2/3 of it at the end.
>> Love and all the time
in the world to enjoy it.
>> The best part for me was
that I was supported by friends
and family and that I had
spiritual therapists that
really helped me work through
all of this stuff and get rid
of the fear and the old hurts
and wounds and then allow me
to return to a really
high state of healing.
>> If you perceive that people
are coming to help you and hold
you and help you through this
process and you feel this
outpouring of love, they are
actually helping your body
heal, because as soon
as you perceive that,
as soon as you believe that
people are sending you love,
you have this oxytocin response.
And oxytocin release
has been associated
with increased natural killer
cells, increased white cells.
The immune response just
goes through the roof.
>> It's really important to
work with doctors that treat you
as a whole person and surround
yourself with friends that
inspire hope and strengthen
in you rather than add
to your fear.
It's hard, though, because
when I'm sick or in pain,
I feel vulnerable and just
want to crawl up in a ball
and be alone.
So how do we break out of
that downward spiral of fear?
How do we transcend the pain
and shift to a positive mindset?
>> So when a person shows
up in a doctor's office
and they're given the diagnosis
of rheumatoid arthritis or MS
or cancer or diabetes, once
they hear that diagnosis,
the common emotions they
experience is either fear
or sadness.
They can think
positively all they want.
They can say, I'm going to
overcome this condition.
But if they are feeling
fear, that thought never
makes it past the
brainstem into the body
because it's not in
alignment with the body's
emotional state.
You get that person to
change their emotional state
and get them into a
state of gratitude.
Why gratitude?
Well, we normally give
thanks when we get something.
But if you're giving thanks
in a state of gratitude,
your body is believing
it's receiving something
because the emotional
signature of gratitude
means it's already happened.
>> So the more that we can feel
the feeling as if our healing
has already occurred, giving
thanks for that healing already
being present, that is the
trigger for our bodies to grow
the nerve cells to make
the connections to trigger
the brain chemistry to
reflect that healing.
We have this advanced
nervous system
that we regulate
through the choices
we make in our lives of
what we think, what we feel,
what we believe,
and specifically
the emotions that we
choose to respond to what
life brings to our doorstep.
>> You know, I've been trying
not to take the steroids.
>> Yes.
>> So I went through a
small breakout last month,
which I thought was good.
And then it was kind
of just dormant.
Like, it never really went away.
And then it all of a sudden
just exploded over the weekend.
>> Oh.
>> So I have, like, these
massive boils that are
starting, and then I have
them all over my chest.
>> Oh.
Oh my God.
>> Yeah.
>> So that's like--
>> This is like when
it's almost full blown.
It's not quite.
>> So if you have
something residing in you--
like, say you have Epstein-Barr
virus or say you have one
of the shingles viruses--
stress can trigger it.
Mold can trigger it.
Someone breaking your
trust can trigger it.
Problems at work can trigger
it, being fired from your job--
everything can trigger it.
But there has to be something
in there to trigger.
The key is knowing
what the real cause
is so you can live life
like a normal person
and have things go wrong and
not go down because of it.
>> OK, so my little flower
blossoms are turning into big
dahlias.
They're starting to
merge together and get
really huge and extremely
painful and hot,
constantly burning up and
then getting the chills.
Powered through the day.
They immediately
called some doctors
and put me in
isolation because they
didn't know if it
was contagious,
viral, what was
going on, infectious.
I had some really
bad abdominal pains
and just this is just getting
so painful and intense.
So they called all
those specialists,
and they ran all these tests,
and everything came back
basically normal.
You know, as I got out, they
gave me just really heavy doses
of steroids to knock
it out because they
could see that I wasn't
getting better on its own.
And then my dermatologist
was concerned
about me taking the steroids
after to initially knock out
the breakout, so she gave me
a prescription of Dapsone,
which is an antibiotic.
And I didn't realize the
strength of the antibiotic
until I went to the pharmacist.
He stopped me at the
counter and said,
do you know that this is a
really heavy dose of antibiotic
that you're taking?
So that's where I'm at.
I have to pick my poison.
Do I Band-Aid it
with steroids or do
I take this heavy
antibiotic indefinitely?
Being in LA and going to some of
the best doctors in their field
and probably seeing half a
dozen to a dozen doctors now,
nobody can figure it out.
They give me drugs for
all these different things
that they think it may be.
But, I mean, that's kind of the
process with Western medicine.
It's very difficult
because it's just
let's just throw
everything at it,
and which one Velcros the best?
>> Do you think that if
alternative doctors were
covered by insurance you might
go more often or they might
seem more credible?
>> Definitely, because I know
with steroids, it's very easy.
It's $5, I get it,
and I'm better.
If I could get access
to these vitamins
and to these alternative
doctors at those nominal costs,
then I would probably
go much more often.
I believe the
naturopath and all that
and doing everything
that's alternative.
I just can't seem
to dedicate myself.
I don't know why.
You know, maybe I'm
just emotionally
stunted to do or open
myself up to that
or there's just something
that's blocking me,
because it seems achievable.
And in my condition,
I should be able to.
But for some reason, I can't.
>> Eva made me realize how much
courage and sometimes cost it
takes to commit to a
holistic path of healing.
As a society, we've
been conditioned
to believe that conventional
doctors know best
and that convenience is key.
>> --hurt me so much.
>> --has hurt me so much.
>> I had no idea.
>> For me, though, it's
either pay now or pay later.
And I really fear
the long-term effects
the steroids will
have on Eva's body.
But I truly understand
her struggle.
So all I can do is continue to
support her in any way I can
and pray she finds
an answer soon.
It's around your third
anniversary being cancer free.
Some fear comes up
around this time of year
because you've heard stories.
>> Oh, so many.
When I first went back
to work, they'd say, oh,
great to have you back,
and then say, yeah,
my so-and-so had
cancer, and then--
oh, they were great.
They did the chemo,
and then they
had no cancer for two years.
And then 2 and 1/2 years later,
they-- oh, covered with cancer.
They died months later.
So many stories like that.
So I've been kind of
dreading this PET scan.
And also, I don't
like the radiation.
But you have to do it.
I actually was manifesting
a lot of pain in my body.
And then you can't tell whether
it's from the radiation damage
or what's going on.
But, yeah, it got to the
point where I thought
for sure it was coming back.
What seems very,
very clear to me
is that my body
wants to be healthy.
Our bodies want to be healthy.
But it's the head that just--
it's the fear and the this
and the whatever that wants to--
it's just like a racket you're
running on yourself, kind of,
and how to let go of that?
>> What is your one take-away
message that you want to share
with everybody?
>> Well, I would say that
the most powerful moment,
the one where I had
the largest epiphany,
was toward the end of
the chemo and radiation.
I was really weak.
And I told my brother, I just
wanted to go to the beach
and I wanted to be in the sun.
So he carried me and
laid me in the grass.
And then he went
out on the beach.
And I was just laying
there, looking at everybody.
And I was watching people
rollerblade and bicycle
and walk with each
other and laugh.
And I just wished I could have
told each of those people,
you're so fortunate.
It occurred to me
that this life is--
it's as beautiful or as
terrible as you make it.
And we have so much beauty
and opportunity around us.
I just wish I could let you all
know what an amazing gift it
is to be alive.
>> Focus on life.
Focus on something
that brings you joy.
Focus on love.
Focus on your loved ones.
And spend every day doing
things that make you feel good.
What I usually
tell people who've
been told that
they're in remission--
I say, think of the
word "remission"
as actually meaning
"remember my mission."
So now it's time for you to
go and remember your mission.
>> Disease can be complicated,
painful, and scary.
I don't claim to
have all the answers.
But on this journey, I have
learned that the human body is
capable of miraculous things.
It is an intelligent
system deeply connected
to our minds and
the world around us
and brilliantly designed
to self-regulate and heal.
By detoxing our environment,
the air we breathe,
the food we eat, the water we
drink, and the products we use,
we support the healing process.
And as we go beyond the
physical and improve
our inner environment,
our thoughts, beliefs,
and emotions, we can
shift our lives and health
in powerful ways.
And it's all about faith,
whether it's faith in God,
faith in medicine, faith in
our body's ability to heal
or a combination of all three.
If we believe it,
we can achieve it.
We live in a world of
infinite possibility.
Choose and focus on the
possibility that you want.
Don't get sucked into the
fear of what you don't want.
We have the power to heal.
[MUSIC - NAHO AND MEDICINE FOR
THE PEOPLE, "BUDDING TREES"]
>> (SINGING) So tap me
out and tap me into you.
Heal my brain and my body too.
Balance my chemistry.
Hydrate these cells
'cause the body talks,
and meditation helps.
The body talks, and
meditation helps.
[VOCALIZING]
>> If I could get people to
realize how precious they are--
they're an expression of life.
There's no other you out there.
That's one in eight billion.
That's pretty special.
But I guarantee you, most
people don't give themselves
that kind of love and care.
That would be a wonderful
precursor to healing.
>> (SINGING) All my
shit in the morning--
>> The better we know ourselves,
the better equipped we are
to heal our bodies,
to heal our emotions,
to heal the inner experience
that allows us to love
to the deepest degree
in the outer world.
>> (SINGING) --children.
Hand of the goddess--
>> Educate yourself about
the mind-body connection,
because your mind exerts
an extraordinarily powerful
effect-- impact on your body 24
hours a day, 365 days a year.
>> (SINGING) You, the
pillar, steadfast light--
>> Every day, I meet someone who
beat incredible odds and turned
around stage four cancer.
Healing can really happen at
any time, even when you're at,
quote, unquote, "death's door."
>> (SINGING) So
visualize healing.
>> And ultimately, go
beyond your fear of death,
because that happens to
an experience, not to you.
>> (SINGING) For
she can no longer--
>> It's my expectation that
this will become more and more
compelling to more and more
people as we all grow together
into a different
kind of medicine.
>> (SINGING) I was
finally ready--
>> Rather than this being
something that you just read
in a book or you watch
in a documentary,
put it into action.
Fall down.
Get back up.
Reach out to other people.
Ask them their stories.
Don't ever give up.
>> (SINGING) Investigate
your mystery.
>> Your body loves you.
It loves you unconditionally,
and it's not letting you down.
Have patience.
Have compassion.
Take one day at a time.
You're going to get there.
It doesn't matter how
long you've been sick.
You can heal, and
always remember that,
and never forget it.
>> (SINGING) Hydrate
these cells 'cause the--
>> I speak the word, knowing
that from this moment
on everything is working
together for our individual
and collective good and that we
claim our wholeness right now.
We claim our health right now.
We claim our vitality
and our vigor
and the power to rejuvenate
and regenerate right now.
Something wonderful
is happening.
And we-- we let it be, now
and forever, and so it is.